docs/modules/ROOT/pages/api.adoc, before:

= API Reference

`test-environment` exposes a number of variables that are used to interact with the local testing blockchain it setups. These are described in detail here:

[source,javascript]
----
const { accounts, defaultSender, contract, web3, provider, isHelpersConfigured } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');
----

== accounts

[source,typescript]
----
accounts: string[]
----

An array of strings with the addresses of the accounts available for testing. By default, there are 10 unlocked accounts with 100 ETH each, but this can be xref:getting-started.adoc#configuration[configured].

[source,javascript]
----
const [ sender, receiver ] = accounts;

await myToken.transfer(receiver, 100, { from: sender });
----

[[default-sender]]
== defaultSender

[source,typescript]
----
defaultSender: string
----

A special account that is used by contracts created via `contract` when no account is specified for a transaction (i.e. there is no explicit `from`). This account is _not_ included in `accounts` to prevent accidental bugs during testing: whenever you want an account to make an action (deploy a contract, transfer ownership, etc.) you should be explicit about the sender of the transaction:

[source,javascript]
----
const [ owner ] = accounts;

// The depoloyment will be made by 'defaultSender' (not 'owner'!), making it
// the contract's owner
const myContract = await Ownable.new();

// And the following test will fail
expect(await myContract.owner()).to.equal(owner);
----

== contract

[source,typescript]
----
contract.fromArtifact: (contract: string) => any;
contract.fromABI: (abi: object, bytecode?: string | undefined) => any;
----

The `contract` object is in charge of creating contracts from compilation artifacts. It does this via two functions:

* `fromArtifact` looks for a `.json` file in the local or a dependency's `build/contracts` directory (equivalent to Truffle's `artifact.require`).
* `fromABI` receives an ABI object directly, useful when the full compilation artifacts are not available.

They both return instances of either https://www.npmjs.com/package/@truffle/contract[`@truffle/contract`] (by default) or https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.0/web3-eth-contract.html[`web3-eth-contract`], depending on your xref:getting-started.adoc#configuration[configuration].

[source,javascript]
----
const ERC20 = contract.fromArtifact('ERC20');

const myToken = await ERC20.new(initialBalance, initialHolder);
----

== web3

A https://www.npmjs.com/package/web3[`web3`] instance, connected to the local testing blockchain. Useful to access utiltiies like `web3.eth.sign`, `web3.eth.getTransaction`, or `web3.utils.sha3`.

== provider

A https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/[`web3`] provider, connected to the local testing blockchain. Used in more advanced scenarios, such as creation of custom `web3` or https://www.npmjs.com/package/ethers[`ethers`] instances.

== isHelpersConfigured

[source,typescript]
----
isHelpersConfigured: boolean
----

A boolean indicating if the xref:test-helpers::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Test Helpers*] library was autodetected and configured.

Commit message:

add note directing to contract loader docs

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/api.adoc, after:

= API Reference

`test-environment` exposes a number of variables that are used to interact with the local testing blockchain it setups. These are described in detail here:

[source,javascript]
----
const { accounts, defaultSender, contract, web3, provider, isHelpersConfigured } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');
----

== accounts

[source,typescript]
----
accounts: string[]
----

An array of strings with the addresses of the accounts available for testing. By default, there are 10 unlocked accounts with 100 ETH each, but this can be xref:getting-started.adoc#configuration[configured].

[source,javascript]
----
const [ sender, receiver ] = accounts;

await myToken.transfer(receiver, 100, { from: sender });
----

[[default-sender]]
== defaultSender

[source,typescript]
----
defaultSender: string
----

A special account that is used by contracts created via `contract` when no account is specified for a transaction (i.e. there is no explicit `from`). This account is _not_ included in `accounts` to prevent accidental bugs during testing: whenever you want an account to make an action (deploy a contract, transfer ownership, etc.) you should be explicit about the sender of the transaction:

[source,javascript]
----
const [ owner ] = accounts;

// The depoloyment will be made by 'defaultSender' (not 'owner'!), making it
// the contract's owner
const myContract = await Ownable.new();

// And the following test will fail
expect(await myContract.owner()).to.equal(owner);
----

== contract

[source,typescript]
----
contract.fromArtifact: (contract: string) => any;
contract.fromABI: (abi: object, bytecode?: string | undefined) => any;
----

The `contract` object is in charge of creating contracts from compilation artifacts. It does this via two functions:

* `fromArtifact` looks for a `.json` file in the local or a dependency's `build/contracts` directory (equivalent to Truffle's `artifact.require`).
* `fromABI` receives an ABI object directly, useful when the full compilation artifacts are not available.

They both return instances of either https://www.npmjs.com/package/@truffle/contract[`@truffle/contract`] (by default) or https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.0/web3-eth-contract.html[`web3-eth-contract`], depending on your xref:getting-started.adoc#configuration[configuration].

[source,javascript]
----
const ERC20 = contract.fromArtifact('ERC20');

const myToken = await ERC20.new(initialBalance, initialHolder);
----

NOTE: Head over to the xref:contract-loader::index.adoc[documentation for Contract Loader] to learn more.

== web3

A https://www.npmjs.com/package/web3[`web3`] instance, connected to the local testing blockchain. Useful to access utiltiies like `web3.eth.sign`, `web3.eth.getTransaction`, or `web3.utils.sha3`.

== provider

A https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/[`web3`] provider, connected to the local testing blockchain. Used in more advanced scenarios, such as creation of custom `web3` or https://www.npmjs.com/package/ethers[`ethers`] instances.

== isHelpersConfigured

[source,typescript]
----
isHelpersConfigured: boolean
----

A boolean indicating if the xref:test-helpers::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Test Helpers*] library was autodetected and configured.
