docs/modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started.adoc, before:

= Getting Started

This guide will cover what you need to know to start using Test Environment, from installation of dependencies to configuration.

To learn instead how to migrate an existing Truffle project, check out our xref:migrating-from-truffle.adoc[Migrating from Truffle] guide.

TIP: If you're new to smart contract testing, you should probably first look at our [guide for automated tests], and then come back here.

== Installing Dependencies

Unlike Truffle, Test Environment is a testing _library_: it provides utilities that help you write tests, but it doesn't run your tests for you.

This is a good thing: it means you are free to use any test runner of your choice. Here we will use https://mochajs.org/[Mocha] (along with https://www.chaijs.com[Chai]):

```bash
$ npm install --save-dev @openzeppelin/test-environment mocha chai
```

TIP: Head to our xref:choosing-a-test-runner.adoc[Choosing a Test Runner] guide to learn about different test runners, their pros and cons, and how to use them.

== Writing Tests

Each test file should have a `require` statement importing Test Environment. This will bring up the local blockchain where your tests will run, and provide utilities to interact with it.

```javascript
const { accounts, contract } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');
```

The exports you will be using the most are `accounts` and `contract`.

=== `accounts`

This is an array with the addresses of all unlocked accounts in the local blockchain. They are also prefunded, so they can all be used to send transactions.

A good practice is to use https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment[array destructuring] to give meaningful names to each account, such as:

```javascript
const [ admin, purchaser, user ] = accounts;
```

This will let you write clearer tests by making it obvious which actor is executing each action:

```javascript
const crowdsale = await Crowdsale.new({ from: admin });

await crowdsale.buyTokens(amount, { from: purchaser });
```

NOTE: Unlike Truffle's `accounts` array, the default address (the one that is used when you don't provide one) is **not** included in `accounts`. This will help you avoid common pitfalls while writing tests. Head to the xref:api.adoc#default-sender[API reference] to learn more.

=== `contract`

You will use this function to load your compiled contracts into JavaScript objects. By default these will be https://www.npmjs.com/package/@truffle/contract[Truffle contracts], but they can be <<configuration, configured>> to be https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.4/web3-eth-contract.html[web3 contracts].

```javascript
// Loads the built artifact from build/contracts/Crowdsale.json
const Crowdsale = contracts.fromArtifact('Crowdsale');
```

=== Test Cases

The overall structure of your tests will be determined not by Test Environment, but by your test runner of choice.

In Mocha, test cases are declared with the `it` function, and grouped in `describe` blocks.

We'll use the following contract to provide an example. It consists of a simple access control mechanism via xref:contracts:api:ownership.adoc#Ownable[*OpenZeppelin Contracts*' `Ownable`]:

```solidity
// contracts/MyContract.sol

pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/ownership/Ownable.sol";

contract MyContract is Ownable { }
```

And here's how testing this contract using Test Environment and Mocha looks like:

```javascript
// test/MyContract.test.js

const { accounts, contract } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');

const { expect } = require('chai');

const MyContract = contract.fromArtifact('MyContract');

describe('MyContract', function () {
  const [ owner ] = accounts;

  beforeEach(async function {
    this.myContract = await MyContract.new({ from: owner });
  });

  it('the deployer is the owner', async function () {
    expect(await this.myContract.owner()).to.equal(owner);
  });
});
```

In xref:choosing-a-test-runner.adoc[Choosing a Test Runner] you can compare how this example looks in each test runner.

== Running your Tests

Test Environment is not executable: tests are run by invoking your runner of choice directly. We recommend that you do this by adding a `test` script to your `package.json`.

This is what that looks like when using Mocha:

```javascript
// package.json

"scripts": {
  "test": "mocha --exit --recursive"
}
```

WARNING: Mocha's `--exit` flag is required when using Truffle contracts. Otherwise, the test suite will not exit. https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/issues/2560[Learn more].

All set! Running `npm test` to execute the test suite:

```bash
$ npm test

  MyContract
    ✓ the deployer is the owner
```

[TIP]
====
Because we're running Mocha directly, it is very easy to pass additional options to it. Try the following, which will cause Mocha to stop immediately on the first failing test:

```bash
$ npm test -- --bail
```
====

[[compiling]]
== Compiling your Contracts

Test Environment requires your contracts to be compiled: you can use the xref:cli::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin CLI*] to do this.

```bash
$ npm install --save-dev @openzeppelin/cli
$ npx oz compile
```

Compilation artifacts will be stored in the `build/contracts` directory, where Test Environment (and most other tools) will read them from.

[TIP]
====
You can set your project to recompile all contracts when running tests by adding this step to your `test` script:

```javascript
// package.json

"scripts": {
  "test": "oz compile && mocha --exit --recursive"
}
```
====

== Using OpenZeppelin Test Helpers

Complex assertions, such as testing for reverts or events being emitted, can be performed by using the xref:test-helpers::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Test Helpers*].

When used alongside Test Environment, there is no need for manual configuration: `require` the helpers and use them as usual.

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

Multiple aspects of Test Environment can be configured. The default values are very sensible and should work fine for most testing setups, but you are free to modify these.

To do this, create a file named `test-environment.config.js` at the root level of your project: its contents will be automatically loaded.

```javascript
// test-environment.config.js

module.exports = {
  accounts: {
    amount: 10, // Number of unlocked accounts
    ether: 100, // Initial balance of unlocked accounts (in ether)
  },

  contracts: {
    type: 'truffle', // Contract abstraction to use: 'truffle' for @truffle/contract or 'web3' for web3-eth-contract
    defaultGas: 6e6, // Maximum gas for contract calls (when unspecified)

    // Options available since v0.1.2
    defaultGasPrice: 20e9, // Gas price for contract calls (when unspecified)
    artifactsDir: 'build/contracts', // Directory where contract artifacts are stored
  },

  blockGasLimit: 8e6, // Maximum gas per block
};
```

[[advanced-options]]
=== Advanced Options

These settings are meant to support more complex use cases: most applications will not require using them.

==== `setupProvider`

```javascript
async function setupProvider(baseProvider)
```

Returns a new https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.0/web3.html#providers[web3 provider] that will be used by all contracts and helpers.

Often used to wrap the base provider in one that performs additional tasks, such as logging or https://docs.openzeppelin.com/gsn-provider[Gas Station Network integration]:

```javascript
// test-environment.config.js

module.exports = {
  setupProvider: (baseProvider) => {
    const { GSNDevProvider } = require('@openzeppelin/gsn-provider');
    const { accounts } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');

    return new GSNDevProvider(baseProvider, {
      txfee: 70,
      useGSN: false,
      ownerAddress: accounts[8],
      relayerAddress: accounts[9],
    });
  },
};
```

Commit message:

Add new options to the docs

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started.adoc, after:

= Getting Started

This guide will cover what you need to know to start using Test Environment, from installation of dependencies to configuration.

To learn instead how to migrate an existing Truffle project, check out our xref:migrating-from-truffle.adoc[Migrating from Truffle] guide.

TIP: If you're new to smart contract testing, you should probably first look at our [guide for automated tests], and then come back here.

== Installing Dependencies

Unlike Truffle, Test Environment is a testing _library_: it provides utilities that help you write tests, but it doesn't run your tests for you.

This is a good thing: it means you are free to use any test runner of your choice. Here we will use https://mochajs.org/[Mocha] (along with https://www.chaijs.com[Chai]):

```bash
$ npm install --save-dev @openzeppelin/test-environment mocha chai
```

TIP: Head to our xref:choosing-a-test-runner.adoc[Choosing a Test Runner] guide to learn about different test runners, their pros and cons, and how to use them.

== Writing Tests

Each test file should have a `require` statement importing Test Environment. This will bring up the local blockchain where your tests will run, and provide utilities to interact with it.

```javascript
const { accounts, contract } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');
```

The exports you will be using the most are `accounts` and `contract`.

=== `accounts`

This is an array with the addresses of all unlocked accounts in the local blockchain. They are also prefunded, so they can all be used to send transactions.

A good practice is to use https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment[array destructuring] to give meaningful names to each account, such as:

```javascript
const [ admin, purchaser, user ] = accounts;
```

This will let you write clearer tests by making it obvious which actor is executing each action:

```javascript
const crowdsale = await Crowdsale.new({ from: admin });

await crowdsale.buyTokens(amount, { from: purchaser });
```

NOTE: Unlike Truffle's `accounts` array, the default address (the one that is used when you don't provide one) is **not** included in `accounts`. This will help you avoid common pitfalls while writing tests. Head to the xref:api.adoc#default-sender[API reference] to learn more.

=== `contract`

You will use this function to load your compiled contracts into JavaScript objects. By default these will be https://www.npmjs.com/package/@truffle/contract[Truffle contracts], but they can be <<configuration, configured>> to be https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.4/web3-eth-contract.html[web3 contracts].

```javascript
// Loads the built artifact from build/contracts/Crowdsale.json
const Crowdsale = contracts.fromArtifact('Crowdsale');
```

=== Test Cases

The overall structure of your tests will be determined not by Test Environment, but by your test runner of choice.

In Mocha, test cases are declared with the `it` function, and grouped in `describe` blocks.

We'll use the following contract to provide an example. It consists of a simple access control mechanism via xref:contracts:api:ownership.adoc#Ownable[*OpenZeppelin Contracts*' `Ownable`]:

```solidity
// contracts/MyContract.sol

pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/ownership/Ownable.sol";

contract MyContract is Ownable { }
```

And here's how testing this contract using Test Environment and Mocha looks like:

```javascript
// test/MyContract.test.js

const { accounts, contract } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');

const { expect } = require('chai');

const MyContract = contract.fromArtifact('MyContract');

describe('MyContract', function () {
  const [ owner ] = accounts;

  beforeEach(async function {
    this.myContract = await MyContract.new({ from: owner });
  });

  it('the deployer is the owner', async function () {
    expect(await this.myContract.owner()).to.equal(owner);
  });
});
```

In xref:choosing-a-test-runner.adoc[Choosing a Test Runner] you can compare how this example looks in each test runner.

== Running your Tests

Test Environment is not executable: tests are run by invoking your runner of choice directly. We recommend that you do this by adding a `test` script to your `package.json`.

This is what that looks like when using Mocha:

```javascript
// package.json

"scripts": {
  "test": "mocha --exit --recursive"
}
```

WARNING: Mocha's `--exit` flag is required when using Truffle contracts. Otherwise, the test suite will not exit. https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/issues/2560[Learn more].

All set! Running `npm test` to execute the test suite:

```bash
$ npm test

  MyContract
    ✓ the deployer is the owner
```

[TIP]
====
Because we're running Mocha directly, it is very easy to pass additional options to it. Try the following, which will cause Mocha to stop immediately on the first failing test:

```bash
$ npm test -- --bail
```
====

[[compiling]]
== Compiling your Contracts

Test Environment requires your contracts to be compiled: you can use the xref:cli::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin CLI*] to do this.

```bash
$ npm install --save-dev @openzeppelin/cli
$ npx oz compile
```

Compilation artifacts will be stored in the `build/contracts` directory, where Test Environment (and most other tools) will read them from.

[TIP]
====
You can set your project to recompile all contracts when running tests by adding this step to your `test` script:

```javascript
// package.json

"scripts": {
  "test": "oz compile && mocha --exit --recursive"
}
```
====

== Using OpenZeppelin Test Helpers

Complex assertions, such as testing for reverts or events being emitted, can be performed by using the xref:test-helpers::index.adoc[*OpenZeppelin Test Helpers*].

When used alongside Test Environment, there is no need for manual configuration: `require` the helpers and use them as usual.

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

Multiple aspects of Test Environment can be configured. The default values are very sensible and should work fine for most testing setups, but you are free to modify these.

To do this, create a file named `test-environment.config.js` at the root level of your project: its contents will be automatically loaded.

```javascript
// test-environment.config.js

module.exports = {
  accounts: {
    amount: 10, // Number of unlocked accounts
    ether: 100, // Initial balance of unlocked accounts (in ether)
  },

  contracts: {
    type: 'truffle', // Contract abstraction to use: 'truffle' for @truffle/contract or 'web3' for web3-eth-contract
    defaultGas: 6e6, // Maximum gas for contract calls (when unspecified)

    // Options available since v0.1.2
    defaultGasPrice: 20e9, // Gas price for contract calls (when unspecified)
    artifactsDir: 'build/contracts', // Directory where contract artifacts are stored
  },

  blockGasLimit: 8e6, // Maximum gas per block

  node: { // Options passed directly to Ganache client
    fork: 'https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/{token}@{blocknumber}, // An url to Ethereum node to use as a source for a fork
    unlocked_accounts: ['0xAb5801a7D398351b8bE11C439e05C5B3259aeC9B'], // Array of addresses specifying which accounts should be unlocked.
    allowUnlimitedContractSize: false // Allows unlimited contract sizes.
  },
};
```

[[advanced-options]]
=== Advanced Options

These settings are meant to support more complex use cases: most applications will not require using them.

==== `setupProvider`

```javascript
async function setupProvider(baseProvider)
```

Returns a new https://web3js.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2.0/web3.html#providers[web3 provider] that will be used by all contracts and helpers.

Often used to wrap the base provider in one that performs additional tasks, such as logging or https://docs.openzeppelin.com/gsn-provider[Gas Station Network integration]:

```javascript
// test-environment.config.js

module.exports = {
  setupProvider: (baseProvider) => {
    const { GSNDevProvider } = require('@openzeppelin/gsn-provider');
    const { accounts } = require('@openzeppelin/test-environment');

    return new GSNDevProvider(baseProvider, {
      txfee: 70,
      useGSN: false,
      ownerAddress: accounts[8],
      relayerAddress: accounts[9],
    });
  },
};
```
